Add replicate `ContributeAndFinalize` statuses and transitions (#171)
iExecBlockchainComputing/documentation: for-developers/advanced/task-feedback.md

└── replicate3 (workerZ)
```

A replicate status workflow can follow two different flows:

> 1. Usual flow: the _task_ is replicated on a number of _workers_, depending on required trust. The _Scheduler_ has to notify the _workers_ when the consensus is reached. It should also finalize the _task_ on-chain.

Reviewer: It is to raise a discussion. We may want to ask this question to more people.

> 2. ContributeAndFinalize flow: the _task_ is finalized by the only _worker_ that has worked on it. It makes the _task_ execution faster and cheaper. However, some limitations apply:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Contribute And Finalize flow: the _task_ is finalized by the only _worker_ that has worked on it. It makes the _task_ execution faster and cheaper. However, some limitations apply:
```

Reviewer 2: is "Contribute and Finalize" too complex for introduce the 2 paths?
a suggestion below
1: usual flow (default): ....
2: optimized flow (running under conditions):...

Author: Thanks for the idea! Here it is: https://github.com/iExecBlockchainComputing/documentation/pull/171/commits/bf822a0428a100b98cb97bb9326ef48a6714142f.

   1. The _worker_ has to be trustworthy. To achieve this point, only TEE _tasks_ are eligible to this workflow;
   2. Callback mode is currently unsupported. iExec strives to remove this limitation.

See the following flowchart for details on their transitions.

{% hint style="warning" %}

> Please ote that all failed status - pictured in red in the following diagram - finally lead to `ABORTED`. For the sake of simplicity, this final status has not been represented here.

Author: I don't think we need the precision. `ABORTED` seems clear enough for me. But let's wait for other points of view.

> Please ote that all failed status - pictured in red in the following diagram - finally lead to `ABORTED`. For the sake of simplicity, this final status has not been represented here.

Reviewer: No problem for me. This is already quite good as it is.

| `RESULT_UPLOADING` | The worker is uploading the result |
| `RESULT_UPLOAD_FAILED` | The upload of the result failed |
| `RESULT_UPLOADED` | The result has been uploaded to IPFS over the _iExec Result Proxy_ (standard or TEE _tasks_) or to Dropbox (TEE only), dependending on the _deal_ parameters |
| `CONTRIBUTE_AND_FINALIZE_ONGOING` | The worker sent the "contributeAndFinalize(...)" transaction on chain |

> | `CONTRIBUTE_AND_FINALIZE_DONE` | The worker has contributed and finalized the task. The last is now considered as completed on-chain |

Author: The latter suits me better :grin:

| `RECOVERING` | The worker has been stopped, it is starting back from where it stopped |
| `WORKER_LOST` | The worker didn't ping the iexec-core scheduler for a while. It is considered as out for this _task_ |

> The transitions between those states are as follows. Please note that all failed status - pictured in red in the following diagram - finally lead to `ABORTED`. For the sake of simplicity, this final status has not been represented here.

Author: Sure. Please see https://github.com/iExecBlockchainComputing/documentation/pull/171/commits/201722e6ecc0d86cae448b9f6e558602b61f407a.

> The transitions between those states are as follows. Please note that all failed status - pictured in red in the following diagram - finally lead to `ABORTED`. For the sake of simplicity, this final status has not been represented here.

Reviewer: Thanks :pray:

end

subgraph Contribute stage

>     COMPUTED -- If trust != 1\nor standard task\nor contribution have already been made\nor callback mode --> CONTRIBUTING

Author: Please see https://github.com/iExecBlockchainComputing/documentation/pull/171/commits/984f2d516fdaae28ae059e71623cb26dce6d544a.

    RESULT_UPLOADING --> RESULT_UPLOAD_FAILED:::failure
end

subgraph Contribute and Finalize stage

>     COMPUTED -- If trust = 1\nand TEE task\nand no contribution have been made yet\nand not in callback mode --> CONTRIBUTE_AND_FINALIZE_ONGOING

Author: Please see https://github.com/iExecBlockchainComputing/documentation/pull/171/commits/984f2d516fdaae28ae059e71623cb26dce6d544a.

    RESULT_UPLOADING --> RESULT_UPLOAD_FAILED:::failure
end

subgraph Contribute and Finalize stage
    COMPUTED -- If trust = 1\nand TEE task\nand no contribution have been made yet\nand not in callback mode --> CONTRIBUTE_AND_FINALIZE_ONGOING

    CONTRIBUTE_AND_FINALIZE_ONGOING --> CONTRIBUTE_AND_FINALIZE_DONE
    CONTRIBUTE_AND_FINALIZE_ONGOING --> CONTRIBUTE_AND_FINALIZE_FAILED:::failure
end

subgraph Complete stage
    RESULT_UPLOADED --> COMPLETING
    REVEALED -- Most workers do not upload their result --> COMPLETING
    CONTRIBUTE_AND_FINALIZE_DONE --> COMPLETING

    COMPLETING --> COMPLETE_FAILED:::failure
    COMPLETING --> COMPLETED:::completed
end

%% Style definitions
classDef failure fill:#a00
classDef completed fill:#0a0
```

> ContributeAndFinalize mode is a particular case that makes the _tasks_ execution faster and cheaper. In that mode, the _workers_ can contribute and finalize the tasks themselves. As the _workers_ have to be trustworthy to enable that mode, it is required the apps run in Trusted Execution Environments. Another limitation iExec strives to remove is the non-callback mode.

Reviewer: Really interesting precision. I find it is written too late in the document.
Should we write it earlier and maybe invert the diagram and the table ?

Author: I have reordered those elements. Please see https://github.com/iExecBlockchainComputing/documentation/pull/171/commits/201722e6ecc0d86cae448b9f6e558602b61f407a.

Reviewer: Thanks :pray:
